# One More Rep
## Self-Adaptation for Availability and Security in Replicated Distributed Systems

This project presents an autonomous self-protection system applied to a PBFT-based distributed network. The goal is to monitor the system from both performance and security perspectives and to support proactive decision-making through a MAPE-based control loop.

The PBFT implementation is based on an existing open-source project, which has been extended and modified by the author: https://github.com/caojohnny/pbft-java

The monitored system consists of multiple machines that communicate via a Redis server to exchange messages and provide the PBFT service.
Each machine is deployed as a virtual machine managed through VirtualBox and Vagrant, which enables automatic network setup and service installation (e.g., Docker, Apache, MySQL).

The system is continuously monitored by a Monitor component, which collects relevant metrics. These metrics are analyzed by the Analyzer and the Warning Manager, which can proactively detect potential performance or security threats.
The collected information is then passed to the Planner, which solves a linear programming problem to determine reconfiguration actions aimed at improving system reliability and security.

The Planner can also involve a set of candidate machines, represented by additional virtual machines, which are ready to join the network if required.
In this project, the self-protection loop is implemented up to the Planner component and does not include the Executor.

## Versions used in development
- **Java**: openjdk 17.0.16
- **Apache Maven**: 3.9.9
- **Docker**: 27.2.0
- **Vagrant**: 2.4.9
- **VirtualBox**: 7.0.12
- **Python**: 3.11.9
- **Redis server**: 5.0.14.1

## Project Structure

The project is structured as follows:
- **pbft-java**: It is the application running on the monitored system that implements the PBFT protocol
- **pbft-vms**: It includes the necessary modules to set up the network automatically, along with all the necessary services to be installed on each machine belonging to it.
- **candidates-vms**: It includes the necessary modules to set up the candidates machines automatically, along with all the necessary services to be installed.
- **monitor**: It includes all the modules needed for system monitoring. It allows for network scanning, CVE detection, network topology discovery and performance metrics collection.
- **analyzer**: It includes all the modules needed to analyze the information collected by the monitor. It allows you to calculate key security metrics such as the risk for each device and Time To Compromise (TTC).
The analyzer, through simulations, also allows you to predict performance values ​​based on real data or by making a future estimate based on the occurrence of benign failures. 
Finally, It allows the generation of preventive and reactive warnings, based on system condition.
- **planner**: It contains all the modules needed to generate system adaptation decisions based on the warnings generated by the analyzer.


## Application Entry Point 
The file **ReplicaLauncher.java** is the entry point of the module pbft-java-example.

# Run the system
1. First,it is necessary to set up the network using the vagrant file. To do this, open the terminal in the folder containing the vagrant file, in this case **pbft-vms**, and type the command:
   ```bash
   vagrant up
   ```
The same instructions must be followed to launch the candidate machine group (the relative folder is **candidates-vms**).

2. After entering the **pbft-java** folder, it is necessary to create the docker image of the application and publish it on dockerhub, so that it can be run on each VM.
   To create the image execute the command:
   ```bash
   docker build -t name/pbft-java:latest .
   ```
   To push it on docker hub:
   ```bash
   docker push  name/pbft-java:latest
   ```

3. To control each virtual machine from the terminal che be used the command:
   ```bash
   vagrant ssh linux-replicaID
   ```
   (the replicaID changes based on the replica. Example for replica0: vagrant ssh linux-replica0)
   
4. On each virtual machine execute the command:
   ```bash
   docker pull name/pbft-java:latest
   ```
   
6. To enable communication between replicas, you need to install Redis. Each replica will run in a container, and the same goes for the Redis server. On the machine where you want to run the Redis server, type the following command:
   ```bash
    docker run -d --name redis -p 6379:6379 redis:latest
   ```

7. On each virtual machine start pbft using the command:
   ```bash
   docker run --rm --name replicaid name/pbft-java:latest --replicaId=id --redis=RedisIP
   ```
   
   Example: if the redis server is running on X.X.X.X and the replica we are launching is the number 0 the        command will be:
   ```bash
   docker run --rm --name replica0 name/pbft-java:latest --replicaId=0 --redis=X.X.X.X
   ```

   The number of replicas depends on the value of f written in the file ReplicaLauncher.java
   By default this value is 2, but it can be changed. If f = 2 the number of replicas will be 3 * 2 +1 = 7. 
   Soyou have to start 7 VMs and 7 times the docker command, one for each VM.

8. After launching all the replicas, the client must be launched on the VM assigned to it with the command:
   ```bash
   docker run --rm --name client name/pbft-java:latest --client --redis=RedisIP
   ```
   When the client starts, the PBFT protocol is executed and each replica cooperates to answer client            requests, that are simple mathematical operations.

9. To launch the script that generates the network json file containing all the information that will be used to scan the network, type the command in the appropriate folder (**ag-basics**):
    ```bash
    python createNetworkFile.py
    ```
10. To generate the attack graph and the paths execute the command (in the **ag-basics** folder):
    ```bash
    python agBuilder.py
    ```
    These scripts are in the Monitor folder.
   
11. To compute availability and risk metrics, enter in the **analyzer** folder and execute the command:
    ```bash
    python coordinator.py
    ```
12. To run the simulation that generate Expected Availability, MTTF and MTTR under benign failure execute the command:
    ```bash
    python MC-CTMCsimulation.py
    ```
13. To execute the performance model that generate expected availability and latency based on real data collected by the monitor execute the command:
    ```bash
    python performance_model.py
    ```
14. After executing the coordinator and the whole system it's possible to start the warning manager with the command:
    ```bash
    python warning_manager.py
    ```
15. To start the planner, enter in the **planner** folder and execute:
    ```bash
    python planner.py
    ```
## Example: Instructions for launching the pbft application with num replicas = 4 (1 replica -> 1 terminal, otherwise 1 replica -> 1 VM).

If you decide to use the VMs, you have to follow the previous instructions about vagrants files and virtual machines. After launching the VMs, the procedures is the same)
In this example we suppose that we lauch the Redis server on the IP address: 1.1.1.1

1. ```bash
   docker build -t myimage/pbft-java:latest .
   ```
2. ```bash
   docker run -d --name redis -p 6379:6379 redis:latest
   ```
3. ```bash
   docker run --rm --name replica0 myimage/pbft-java:latest --replicaId=0 --redis=1.1.1.1
   ```
4. ```bash
   docker run --rm --name replica1 myimage/pbft-java:latest --replicaId=1 --redis=1.1.1.1
   ```
5. ```bash
   docker run --rm --name replica2 myimage/pbft-java:latest --replicaId=2 --redis=1.1.1.1
   ```
6. ```bash
   docker run --rm --name replica3 myimage/pbft-java:latest --replicaId=3 --redis=1.1.1.1
   ```
7. ```bash
   docker run --rm --name client myimage/pbft-java:latest --client --redis=1.1.1.1
   ```




 
